## READ ME

Before the implementation of the code of this medical diagnostic chatbot, some important files had to be downloaded and some system environment variables had to be added/modified to make the Java-Prolog connection and implementation possible. The group utilized the JPL7 java library, which is an API between SWI-Prolog and the Java Virtual Machine. As per the creators of JPL7, JPL is a set of Java classes and C functions providing a bidirectional interface between Java and Prolog. JPL uses the Java Native Interface (JNI) to connect to a Prolog engine through the Prolog Foreign Language Interface (FLI).

Afterwards, the project folder template was made with the use of VSCode's to make the source, library, and output files more organized. For more information regarding the project template, refer to the following:

- `src`: the folder where the source files are located. This folder also includes the driver java file, the knowledge base (Prolog file), and other important text files.
- `lib`: the folder to maintain dependencies. This folder includes the executable jar file for the JPL library.
- `bin`: the folder where the compiled output files will be generated by default.



## HOW TO RUN AND USE THE PROGRAM

To start the program, double click on the 'run.bat' file to run the 'app.jar' file and the cmd prompt should appear to the user. It is important for both the 'app.jar' and 'run.bat' files to be located in its default location to prevent FileNotFoundException errors. If the user desires to move these files, modifications to the java files must be made in order for the program to be able to locate the necessary files.

When the program compiles successfully, a menu appears where the user can choose to start the diagnosis [1], show the list of diseases and their symptoms [2], or simply exit the program [0] by entering an integer. When the user inputs 1, the program attempts to consult the specified knowledge base to start the connection; if successful, diagnosis commences, otherwise, an error may appear.

After consulting the knowledge base, the chatbot system askes the user for basic information (name, age, and gender). Afterwards, the user is presented with a list of symptoms that he/she can choose from to form the chief complaint. The user is encouraged to choose only the main symptoms that forced the patient to seek medical diagnosis. After the user chooses the symptoms, the chief complaint is created and the chief symptoms are recorded in data structures such as ArrayLists.

When the program finishes choosing possible diseases for diagnosis, the possible diseases are presented to the user and the user is asked with a set of questions per disease. If the user inputs 'y' or 'Y', it means the symptom is present; otherwise, any key would indicate that the symptom is absent. After the user answers all the needed questions, a final medical report is presented with patient's basic information, symptoms, final diagnosis, treatment, and emergency status. If there is no diagnosed disease, the program simply displays it and the user is returned back to the main menu.

If the user wishes to add/modify the diseases and symptoms of the program, he must do so through 5 files:

- `diseases.txt`: text file that contains the diseases and symptoms to be read for the program. Its format starts with an integer indicating the number of current total diseases, the disease name, the number of symptoms for that disease, 'n' number of lines that indicate the symptom names (in Prolog format), and the loop goes back to the next disease name and so on.
- `symptomslist.txt`: text file that contains all of the symptoms in the knowledge base sorted in alphabetical order and in usual English format.
- `symptomsplconverted.txt`: text file that contains all of the symptoms in the knowledge base sorted in alphabetical order and follows the naming format in Prolog.
- `mcokb.pl`: Prolog file that contains the main knowledge base of the chatbot.
- `App.java`: Java file that also serves as the driver of the whole program. Modification to the getDiseaseId method must be made in order to assign an ID to a specific disease. It is important to note that the arrangement of the list of diseases and their respective symptoms must be the same for all the said files.

For more reference on how to run this program, access this video: https://youtu.be/e4YsuRQTzSQ
